## Raymond Williams, Ideas of Nature

What we mean and refer to by nature and how it has shifted throughout nature? What we mean  How human changed from deputy of God to individual.

<br>
<br>

## William Cronon, The Trouble with Wilderness: Or, Getting Back to the Wrong Nature 

Rethink "wilderness" and the way we define it? Wilderness was created when organization starts. Radical change in meaning over time.

<br>
<br>

---


## 3 Different Natures: Capitalism, Organic, Technology

### Can we have a bridge between social constructivism and essentialism

**Social constructivism**
> Everything is constructed out of social constructs.

Radical interpretation of social constructivism interprets nature as purely a social construct.

<br>

**Essentialism**
> Something essential and fundamental "out" there. Certain categories have a definite truth or reality.

Gender through biology (essentialism) vs culture (social constructivism)


## Potato  King
Indiginuous production of potato in Peru
Continuously try to create new strains of potatos, push the bounds of potato farming
Huge amount of types of potatoes

Potatos backbone of peruvian cuisine

## Idaho Potato
Mass production of identical potatos. Mechanized and "unnatural". "Technological" nature

## GMO's
People have altered genomes for thousands of years through selective breeding. We can do much faster now with technology. Crops, medicine, and animals.

How
1. Introducing new DNA into a genome using bacteria.
Plasmids can be transfered between genes,


## Relationship between Nature Culture
- Bridge between social constructivists and environmentalists
- Rosaldo's analysis of sex and gender "The mutual accommodation of biology and history" 
<br>
<br>

### Capitalism
We put too much on biotechnology instead of building directly on nature.
Plantation owner

### Organic
Indiginous

### Technology
Researcher
Bioprospecting

## How should one go about understanding different views of nature that is held by these communities?
- "nature is differently experienced according to one's social position and that is differently produced by different groups or in different historical periods"
- " the three regimes do not represent a linear sequence or series of stages in the history of social nature. They coexist and overlap"

## How do these communities emphasize Nature? What does Nature mean to them?

## Different Natures
- "CApitalist nature is uniform, legible, manageable, harvestable, Fordist
- Organic nature, "all beings in the universe are "raised" and "nurtured" out of similar principles... no strict separation between humans and nature.
- Bio-prospecting "More than ever the natural is seen as a product of the social"